hello welcome to the section
mechanical tips hobby vote today
let's play a song a little bit more
technical because good everyone is
worry about the tires more or less
wide because we have some people
Well, ask, we can not ride
wider tires is what improves
has in the mountain the wide tire you
you know what
any motorcycle or a cbr 600 simonton
180 the same bike that runs moto2 rides
a 200 because that increase
it's simple there are several reasons
but you know that one is clear that is the
work surface a wide tire
It has a large work surface
then a wide tire that gives me
grip romea much grip and this flu
allows to open before
it's fantastic fantastic
well something else that is the case well there
an explanation a motorcycle that has to
going very fast through a curve makes it
missing a low center of gravity for
that is stable because it will be high provokes
an instability on the step bike
it's very nice to take a curve very
fast and that the bike starts to move
do not find the stability point of
the center of gravity lying under
Well yes that allows you in this case that
control the angle of the
tilt not the bike is controlled very
ok problem that the bikes with something of
and a bass take more tend to knock
much more to seek balance almost
He knocked down more and I need a tire
wider at the end you do not look for the
wider tire because yes but
because the evolution of the motorcycle and
chassis has allowed one more bend step
fast that has forced to lower the
hundreds of gravity a little and that has
forced to ride a wider tire
because otherwise you can not make the step of
fast curve
a ball
but once arrived at khedira it is good
up to here quite right there is a
factor plus that is the factor that you
I want to talk about motorcycles by default
they are like cars rear-wheel drive
because while they are surviving you adore
they get inside the curve always always
a motorbike when there are always graves
effect we do not have a lying angle and
we have a centrifugal force that
wants to draw from the centripetal force
made by the dough that wants to put me
that centripetal force depends on a
factor x that is how I move the center
of gravity in this case I do know that being
this tire
that we have here when I tumble
OK
I have displaced the center of gravity
some distance from what good in
actually the original calculations is
over the center of the bike but you do not
you must calculate with respect to the point of
tire support
which is smaller in this case this
displacement at some time this
tire or this this motorcycle get
to balance a certain angle of
lying down we will reach a balance between
Centrifugal and centripetal force
some force to help us if not what
we call it the push thrust thrust
of rope that occurs in all
tires but that is higher in the
rear tire because it 's a lot
wider the rear tire in
reality when it supports with the ground it
deforms and generates a flat support a
Flat support band is worth passing
this support, well, if I give you a
tire supported here and we look at it
regarding a center what I have is a
cone is a cone with the support makes
of cone is worth making a cone when I
the shot turns on itself and that's the
effect that produces one more tire
width
a greater pivot effect against more
width plus piloting effect is to say
that the ass of the motorcycle actually
I wanted to get inside the curve
this is not bad is not a force that is
adds to the centripetal force and that we
it helps that the centrifugal force does not
take out or let's say it allows us to make a
small step of faster curve in this
case is worth before we are expelled
another good feature is like this is a
cone and you all know what you can have
already tried to throw a wheel and see
how it gets to spin on itself is
a cone will go on itself
what happens is that the outside of the
cone not as has a support a base of
support or flat is greater than the part
interior that makes skid again
there is a continuous skid because a
part of the crisis wheel faster and the
another does not let this skid itself
it's bad because it causes temperature and that
the tire is warm and grip
improves the grip let's say a
10% of that skid is good and beyond
of this then it would not be so good
well when we go back to the beginning it's good
ride a wider tire men and
the rim allows you to ride it I do not
I would say no that you could not ride is
Of course you're going to improve traction
You have more support on the floor you can
open before and the effect
the bump thrust is going to be a bit
bigger if it's going to get better
this is fantastic but be careful that you
change the way you drive the bike
change at that moment and you to what is
used to go
it might not be what you
find after mounting the
tire hence always come out to
certain changes of that type is better
take a contact with the motorcycle
do not go out fast to try to make curves
fast if you do not take a
initial contact the vehicle is tested
does not look is how the way of
to knock down the widest tire is possible
knock the bike a little bit more because you
demands a little more angle and lying down
to reach equilibrium it is worth but one
once lying down so you'll see what's allowed
go faster with the bump thrust
be careful that when you go with tires a
slightly lower pressure also happens
this is only that the tire a
little lower pressure you to the
feeling that the grip is better and is
for this because when going lower than
The footprint is greater and you have more
cone effect the cone is larger with
that the force that wants to get you inside
of the curve is also greater is a great
advantage of motorcycles because
always the natural tendency once in
once inside the curve because a
motorcycle when it goes straight wants straight what
it costs to center it but when it enters its
natural tendency is
inside do not leave in this case
we can associate the front tire
simple as it is very narrow would be better
talk about other effects the tire
forward like those drift angles
that some other day we'll talk about
them up here the program today and
until next week
if you want to make your way as a mechanic
of the competition come to our course of
motorcycle mechanics call us at
93 26 8 14 44 gps training school
of the motorcycle has sponsored this section